Cool.
2 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay.
3 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
We'll come back this is the 2nd, part of the lecture now we are going to go over some moment to finish your problems.
4 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, for a moment, the financial, what is this the 2nd, moment of failure is more to.
5 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
That's the mathematical definition. It is a geometric property of an area, used to determine the strength of a structure member or the location of force acting on a plate somewhere fluid.
6 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, a moment of inertia is basically the resistance of a structural element to undergo any change in this shape.
7 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Size, it's a more definition of an area is known about instead portal access. We can find out more definition about any set of access.
8 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Uh, by using the pattern of access there. Okay.
9 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Moving forward, let us look at the how to find out the moment of inertia. If the curve defining, the boundary of the area is expressed as why is it going to affect? Then we selected a triangular differential elements such that it has a finite length and differentiated.
10 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
The elements should be located so that it intersects the curve at that arbitrary point. So, let's say the best thing to do about to finish here is that if you have to find a different issue about the X axis.
11 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
You can take a strip bottle to the X axis.
12 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
If you have to find a more differential about the Y, axis, you can take the strip bottle to the Y axis. Okay. So, uh, that would be the easiest thing to do.
13 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Uh, he runs the gamut of inertia.
14 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Uh, formulas, I access to Y square D. A. I. is able to export.
15 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, so if you take a strip that is horizontal.
16 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
The length of the strip is X. the height is the Y.
17 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And it is making a moment of why so I, X is equal to.
18 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Why square? D. okay.
19 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
If you take moment a strip, which is parallel to the Y, axis.
20 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Now, in this case, the height of the ship is why.
21 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Horizontal distance is the X, so.
22 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
To find that moment of inertia about the Y, axis.
23 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
You have to take moment of this area, you know, with the respect to the Y, axis using X.
24 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So this would be X Square. D okay.
25 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, to stay on to determine parallel access to them.
26 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
This is a file access data access data is used.
27 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
If you already know the moment of inertia about the central access.
28 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Then you can just add this term a device Square.
29 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
To find a way to finish out about a patent set of access with is a difference between X dash and existences.
30 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, um, this sort of figure or table it will be given to you already in the exam.
31 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, uh, the reason this is given to you is that we don't expect you to actually remember, you know, all these formulas. So, uh, we would be giving this to you so that.
32 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
You can use this more about the central access. You can use these values in the file.
33 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Now, we have 2 problems for ice section. We have, for example, 5 examples 6.
34 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
I would like to go over. I mean, we can do either 1 of the 2 problems, but let us do this example. So, here you have an ice section. This is the X axis is the, this is the central axis.
35 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
This ticket is symmetrical, so it's very easy to determine where the centroid and X axis for the shape and centroid Y, axis of the ship might be.
36 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
The dimensions are the web complete is.
37 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
From top until those, this access is 200.
38 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
From bottom until here, it's 200. this height is 20 and the site is 20 and the thickness is basically.
39 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Of the thickness of the web the vertical part is the web and the horizontal part is the.
40 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, the thickness of the whole section is just 20.
41 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
This distance is 150. this, this, this is 150.
42 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, what you can do is that you can convert this into, um, 3, rectangles.
43 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Is a horizontal 2, horizontal and 1 rectangle.
44 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For the Y, axis more differentiate about the Y axis. If you notice the Y axis.
45 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
The Y, axis is passing through the centroid by centroid for all the examples. So.
46 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For the why we need to finish up we don't need to.
47 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Applied by access tail. Okay. But for the X axis.
48 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
If you notice this is internal x axis.
49 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And, yeah, for the vertical rectangle, it passes through the centroid, but for this and this.
50 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For the horizontal rectangles the X axis central relax access is different. Okay.
51 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, we are going to be applying peril access to here.
52 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Let us 1st, find out more definition about the X axis.
53 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Want to finish off a rectangle about the central x axis is by 12.
54 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So so for this rectangle.
55 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And for this rectangle, the distance between the X axis is the X axis. Okay. From this point to.
56 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
The centre of this rectangle it is 190. how did I know.
57 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
I know that from this point, until the base is 200.
58 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Thickness is 20. half of it is 10. so 200-1090.
59 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, so the parallel distance between the 2 axes and 19 now, we will just apply by.
60 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Mind you this is the yeah, this is the amount of an issue about the central by 12.
61 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, for the top, and the bottom, we will do 1 calculation, and we will just multiply it with 2 like this. Okay. So the calculation is that the supply file access to them.
62 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
I X, more definition about the centroid and X axis.
63 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For the this or this, you can use either. 1 of them is equal to.
64 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Issue by 12 about the central relaxes, which is.
65 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
300 times 20 usually by 12.
66 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Last area area is equal to 300 times 20.
67 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Times the transcript is principle Square, 1900 Square, but that is the more definition about the X axis.
68 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, moment to financial about the X axis of this vertical web.
69 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Is simply be achieved by 12? No. Need to transfer.
70 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Because this access of the overall section is the same as the X axis for the vertical bar. Right? So this is simply.
71 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Which is 20 H, which is 360.
72 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Why 316? This height is 360.
73 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, this high this for the web is 360.
74 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Total is 400-20 for this -20 for the bottom you will have 3 system. So bye.
75 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Similarly, now we have for the horizontal for the vertical.
76 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
2 horizontal changes, so you will multiply moment of inertia by 2 last moment of inertia of the center.
77 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Y, axis center vertical. Well, we will give you total moment to finish.
78 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
To find a woman to finish about the Y axis. It is just by 12.
79 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
hbq by 12 of each of the rectangles. Okay.
80 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, we will, we are not going to transfer it because Y, axis is a central access. There is no transfer distance.
81 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So all of them you will calculate by 12 for the horizontal 2, horizontal ones.
82 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And then 1 vertical ones, you will get the for the.
83 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Similarly, this example is very similar.
84 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
To what we have, I think you will do this in the tutorial also most likely.
85 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, in this example, we will do want to finish by the composite method.
86 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
If you look, we have this solid blue area. Okay. It consists of a triangle and a rectangle and then the circle is taken out of it. You have to find a more differentiate about the X axis and definition about the Y, axis.
87 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, I will just let, you know how this is to be done then you can do this yourself.
88 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, basically you will find a moment of inertia about the centroid Alexa access for.
89 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Each of the shapes what we can do is that because.
90 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
There is a hollow circle here, so you can just, um, sorry.
91 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
I want to use a different color, not this 1. let me use a different yeah.
92 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, what you can do is you can fill this up.
93 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, you can just fill this out and now you have a solid.
94 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Can you have a solid chip in this way? So if you look at this, um, shape.
95 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Or the triangle, we know that the Central is at 8 by 3 by 3. we have, I have explained this to you over here then for the rectangle.
96 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Uh, you know, the moment of inertia, we're trying to find it about the X axis. So that's why we are looking at the why distances?
97 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, for the rectangle, it is at 100.
98 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And then for this cycle, the centroid is at 100, right?
99 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, what this means is that, um.
100 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For the triangle.
101 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
The finishes here. Okay. And what is this distance?
102 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
This distance is 200, because a total height of the triangle is 200. so be by 3 H by 3.
103 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, 200 divided by 3, and then for the rectangle and the circle, it is 100. okay.
104 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, we will find out moment of inertia, uh, for the triangle, and this about their own centroid access, right?
105 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And then you will just transfer it to this.
106 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, for the triangle by 36, how do I know that? Well.
107 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
This shape here see, this is a triangle moment of inertia. Here is 36.
108 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, 226 remember the is the.
109 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Access panel to the X axis. So here.
110 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Is equal to 300 by 36 this is the of the triangle about it's x axis. Then this is the area of the triangle hop into height and this is a vertical distance 200 divided by 3.
111 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
This is the central X access for the triangle and you are transferring it to 100 by 3.
112 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Right. So that's that's there's that.
113 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Then you can do moment of inertia for the rectangle.
114 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
It'd be by 12, 300 times 200. by 12. we are transferring at a distance of 100 so, area times device square and then circle 1 definition is via 4 by 4 inspired Square.
115 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
And this is the area, and this is a transfer distance 100.
116 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Answer this, these 2 will be added up and then the circle is going to be subtracted to give us some more definition about the X axis.
117 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Similarly, you can solve it for about the Y axis, but then now all the distances.
118 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Will be taken with respect to classes so this distance is 450.
119 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For the rectangle, and for the subtle both for this 1 is equal to.
120 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Um, if we try and go to the Central right here.
121 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Right so this distance is to be by 3.
122 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Which is 200 this distance is be by 3 it this 1. so.
123 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
To 100 this distance is 1. so transfer distance is basically 200.
124 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, you know, this from the properties.
125 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, similarly you can solve for more definition about the Y, axis.
126 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, thank you so much. This is these are the problems. Um, most of these problems are.
127 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
These problems are not hard, but they do require a little bit of thought process how you should be taking this trip how you're going to calculate the.
128 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Differential area how you're going to take the moment about the X axis.
129 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
So, the central amount of inertia is there these problems? I'm, if I find more lectures, like, my previously recorded lectures, I will put them on on.
130 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Otherwise, in we are going to do some good revision of this topic as well.
131 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Okay, I'm also going to put some free recorded lecture for, uh, energy, kinetic energy and potential energy.
132 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
We did this topic in class today, so we didn't finish the lecture, but because we had time we finished early. So I had.
133 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
Started the next topic also, so I'm going to put that also online.
134 "Sana Amir" (1471704832)
For you to watch, thank you so much, have a lovely day.